This is Julie Lawrence and I am interviewing Sue Birch, one of the volunteers at
Frenzive Cardiff Reservoirs about her involvement with the Reservoirs.
My earliest memories of the Reservoir is when my family learnt to sail there
between the late 19th and early 90s. My husband learnt to sail first and continued
to volunteer and Wednesday evening classes for the youngsters for many years. Get in the
boats ready and helping taking the youngsters out on the water.
So have you got any particularly special memories of events that happened while you were attending
the Reservoir and your husband was volunteering helping children learn to sail?
When the legato was on I won the things I remember is my middle daughter, capsizing just after
they'd set off and my husband had to go and help rescuer. I remember all the little
frogglets that used to be on the ropes that kept the boats mored to the pontoon and just
generally wandering around the Reservoir and observing the wildlife while the children
were out sailing. When I learnt to sail myself at the end of the course you had to do a
capsize and I did my capsize drill, I was quite petrified. I came up underneath the sail
which was most disconcerting. The worst thing of all was when I actually got back up and
in the boat I had lost one of my shoes. I remember it was a yellow white striped marks
and spencers canvas shoe which I assume is still lying at the bottom of the Reservoir
somewhere. How do you think coming to the Reservoir
affected you as a family? I think we find it as a, apart from the actual
form of learning to sail, the atmosphere was great, you could wander around in between
and it was tranquil and it's always stuck with me. When you look at the Reservoirs as they
are today what does that mean to you now? It brings down lots of family memories, but
when we all used to be here it's amazing to see it now as it is with the ability to
walk around it, having to get a licence. Just to see how much is improved and how much
the people are now going to learn to sail into water sports here. What wonderful facilities
they have. You've become a volunteer yourself. What have you enjoyed about that? I've enjoyed
trolling around the Reservoir, watching the wildlife as I go around chatting to people,
some of the activities that's been done such as well as in the word with the Simon Seeker
families has been really, really worthwhile and I think I will enjoy all the ongoing activities
that are there that keep me coming around the Reservoir. Once the Reservoir closed to people
sailing, did your families continue to sail? Or what did you do? My childhood didn't,
but my husband had a boat in Mandagvier than we sailed a couple of times up there.
Now that it's open again for water sports do you think that you might participate in that
in the future? Yes, I probably will. My husband certainly will, I'll go with sailing and I know that
one of my daughters wants to come up here to go paddle boarding and probably my grandchildren as well.
Oh that would be lovely to have three generations. I promise.
Is there anything else that you'd like to tell us about your involvement with the Reservoir?
Well when my family visit from Manchester and Reading, grandchildren and my daughters
always come for walk around the Reservoir, it's one of their destinations when they come to Cardiff
to visit. No, absolutely. Can you tell me anything about some of the wildlife that you've seen at the
Reservoir? Well there's plenty of defted ducks and little greaves, loads of nodes and little greaves,
but in the summer I was doing a patrol here once and there were big flock of swifts that came
back and forth circulating and then disappeared. That's the first time I've seen a flock of swifts
and it was quite amazing. Have you ever spotted anything that's particularly excited or surprised you?
Do you have any memories of nature being at the Reservoir while the sailing was going on?
There used to be a larger number of geese and one of the tasks of the volunteers was to clean all
the goose-strottings off the boats before the kids could take them out.